PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT
ACT, N O. 33 OF 2024
 Printed on the Order of Government[Certified on 18th of  June, 2024]
PRINTED  AT THE DEPARTMENT  OF GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED  AT THE GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 24.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
2—PL 014556—480 (05/2024)[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]
L. D.- O. 66/2023
AN ACT TO PROVIDE  FOR PUBLIC  DEBT MANAGEMENT  INCLUDING  THE
AUTHORISATION  TO BORROW , TO ISSUE  AND TO SERVICE  PUBLIC
DEBT  AND ISSUING  GUARANTEES , ON-LENDING , ENTER  INTO
SUPPLIER ’S CREDIT  AND FINANCE  LEASE  AGREEMENTS ; FOR THE
ESTABLISHMENT  OF THE PUBLIC  DEBT MANAGEMENT  OFFICE  AND
FOR MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Public Debt
Management Act, No. 33 of 2024.
(2) The provisions of this Act other than this section,
shall come into operation on such date as the Minister may
by Order published in the Gazette  appoint (in this Act referred
to as the “appointed date”).
(3) The provisions of this section shall come into
operation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act of
Parliament.
(4) The appointed date shall be a date not later than a
period of six months from the date on which the provisions
of this section come into operation.
2. This Act shall apply to the following entities: -
(a) Ministries, Departments, District Secretariats of
the Government, and Special Spending Units;
(b)  statutory funds and trusts to which public
finance is allocated with the approval of the
Parliament;
(c) State-owned enterprises;
(d) Provincial Councils, Ministries, Departments,
other institutions coming under the Provincial
Councils and local authorities; and
(e) any other entity.Short title and
date ofoperation
Application of
this Act
2 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
Establishment of
the Public DebtManagementOffice ofSri Lanka3. Public debt management is the process of establishing
and executing a medium term to long term strategy formanaging public debt with the following objectives:–
(a) to meet financing needs and debt payment
obligations on a timely basis;
(b) to borrow at the lowest costs as possible over the
medium term to long term, consistent with a prudent
degree of risk; and
(c) to promote the development of the domestic debt
securities market.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT  OF THE PUBLIC  DEBT MANAGEMENT  OFFICE
4. There shall be established an office called the Public
Debt Management Office (hereinafter referred to as the“Office”) within the Ministry of Finance which shall beresponsible for the –
(a) management of the debt of the Government;
(b)  issuance and management of loan guarantees;
(c) management of on-lending operations; and
(d) recording and reporting of public debt.
5. (1) There shall be a Director-General appointed by the
Cabinet of Ministers.
(2) The Director-General shall be the head of the Office
and be responsible for the overall operations of the Office.
(3) The terms and conditions of employment including
remuneration for all employees of the Office shall bedetermined by the prevailing Government regulations as
may be applicable from time to time.Public debt
managementobjectives
Director-General
of the Office
3 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
6. The Office shall exercise and perform the following
powers and functions subject to the provisions of section 3:-
( a) preparation and publication of –
(i) the medium-term debt management strategy;
(ii) the annual borrowing plan; and
(iii) auction calendars for the issuance of
Government securities;
(b) negotiation of financial terms and conditions and
execution of domestic and external borrowings,other credit arrangements and debt managementactivities of the Government:
  Provided that, the Government’s external
borrowings from bilateral and multilateral agenciesshall be executed in coordination with theDepartment in charge of the subject of ExternalResources of the Treasury;
(c) maintenance of relationships, as necessary for
achieving and maintaining access to financialmarkets;
(d) coordination of debt operations in relation to cash
flow management with the Department in charge ofthe subject of Treasury Operations of the Treasury;
(e) preparation and execution of debt related liability
management operations;
(f) assessment of the credit risk and advise on risk
mitigation mechanism of loan guarantees and on-
lending operations;
(g) recording, reporting, dissemination and publication
of public debt, loan guarantees, on-lending,suppliers’ credit and finance lease in accordancewith this Act;Powers andfunctions of theOffice
4 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(h) servicing of the debt of the Government on a timely
basis in accordance with this Act;
(i) preparation of debt service forecasts based on both
present and forecasted debt of the Government; and
(j) any other function, the Minister may assign in
carrying out the objectives under section 3.
7. The Minister may issue to the Office, such guidelines
or directions in writing as are not inconsistent with the
provision of this Act, relating to the policy to be followed in
the exercise and performance of the powers and functions of
the Office.
PART II
PUBLIC  DEBT COORDINATING  COMMITTEE
8. (1) There shall be a Public Debt Coordinating
Committee appointed by the Minister (hereinafter referred
to as the “Committee”) to coordinate at policy level,
consisting of –
(a) the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury who shall act
as the Chairperson;
(b) the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of Treasury Operations of the Treasury;
(c) the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of Fiscal Policy of the Treasury;
(d) the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of External Resources of the Treasury;
(e) the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of National Budget of the Treasury;Powers of theMinister to issueguidelines anddirections
Establishment
of the PublicDebtCoordinatingCommittee
5 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(f) the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of Public Enterprises of the Treasury;
(g) two officers of the Central Bank not below the rank
of Director nominated by the Governor of the CentralBank; and
(h) the Director-General of the Office.
(2) The Director-General of the Office shall nominate a
senior officer of the Office to be the Secretary and theConvener of the Committee.
(3) The Committee shall meet at least once in every month.9. The powers, duties and functions of the Committee
shall be to:–
(a) review and opine on the debt management strategy
and its updates prepared by the Office, ensuring theconsistency of the debt management strategy withmacroeconomic policies;
(b) review and opine on the annual borrowing plan
and its performance;
(c) review domestic and international market
conditions and provide recommendations on therisk associated with public debt and opportunitiesin the market and on official developmentassistance; and
(d) perform such other functions as may be assigned to
it by the Minister for the purposes of achieving theobjectives under section 3.
10. (1) The quorum of the Committee shall be five
members.
(2) A meeting of the Committee may be held either –Powers, duties
and functions ofthe Committee
Quorum and
meetings of theCommittee
6 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(a) by the number of members who constitute a quorum
being assembled at the place, date and timeappointed for the meeting; or
(b) by means of audio-visual communication by which
all members participating and constituting aquorum can simultaneously see and hear eachparticipating member for the duration of the meeting.
PART III
GOVERNMENT  BORROWING  AND DEBT MANAGEMENT
11.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 3, a medium
term debt management strategy (hereinafter referred to asthe “strategy”) for the management of the debt of theGovernment shall be formulated and updated annually on arolling five year horizon by the Office.
(2) Such strategy shall be reviewed by the Minister and
submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its final approval.The Central Bank shall be given an opportunity to providewritten comments on the draft strategy before the approvalof the Cabinet of Ministers is granted.
(3) The approved strategy shall be aligned with the
medium term fiscal framework and published in the officialwebsites of the Ministry of Finance and of the Office andtabled in Parliament not later than the second reading of theAppropriation Bill of the year for which the strategy isprepared as an accompanying document of the AnnualBudget Document.
(4) For the purposes of achieving the objectives under
section 3, the strategy formulated and updated annually ona rolling five year horizon under subsection (1), constitutesthe upcoming financial year  and four succeeding financialyears and shall take into account the following:–Debtmanagementstrategy
7 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(a) the cost and risk embedded in the current public
debt portfolio and outstanding derivative
transactions;
(b) future borrowing requirements;
(c) the medium term fiscal framework;
(d) market conditions; and
(e) such other factors as may be relevant for the
preparation of the strategy.
(5) The approved strategy shall be reviewed and updated
at least annually by the Office. The updated strategy shallbe submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for approval andpublished in the official websites of the Ministry of Financeand of the Office thereafter.
(6) All borrowings and other debt management operations
shall be in line with the strategy.
12. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
has the sole authority to borrow and issue debt securities
within or outside Sri Lanka in local or foreign currencies on
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(2) Debt of the Government of Sri Lanka shall be charged
on the Consolidated Fund.
13. (1) The purposes for which the Government may
borrow are –
(a) to finance any deficit in the annual Government
budget approved by Parliament;
(b) to manage cash flow including to build up and
maintain a liquidity buffer at a level or at a range
determined by the Minister;
(c) to lend funds to Provincial Councils, local
authorities, State owned enterprises and any other
entity as may be approved by Parliament;Borrowingauthorization
Borrowing
purposes
8 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(d) to honour obligations under called Government
guarantees;
(e) to refinance outstanding debt of the Government,
including repayment of a loan or credit prior to its
maturity date and repurchase of Government debtsecurities;
(f) to immediately respond to effects of unforeseen
circumstances caused by a catastrophic emergency,
in cases where the additional expenditure cannot
be funded through virement procedures or throughan allocation from the annual budget reserve or
other similar mechanisms to make in-year
adjustments to the annual budget as providedpursuant to relevant legislation for public financial
management or through the Contingencies Fund
under Article 151 of the Constitution;
(g) to finance any expenditure that may arise under
paragraphs (3) and (4) of Article 150 of the
Constitution;
(h) to support the balance of payments of  Sri Lanka by
replenishing its foreign currency reserves; and
(i) for any other purpose as may be approved by
Parliament.
(2) Where borrowing is for any of the purposes of
paragraph ( f) of subsection (1), the Minister shall as soon as
practicable but not later than fifteen working days after the
conclusion of such borrowing, inform Parliament of the terms
and conditions of the borrowing.
14. (1) At the request of the Central Bank, the Government
may issue debt securities for the sole purpose of supporting
the implementation of the monetary policy objectives.Issuance of
Governmentdebt securitiesfor theimplementationof the monetarypolicy objectives
9 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(2) Where debt securities are issued under subsection (1),
the proceeds from the issuance of the debt securities shall bedeposited in a segregated account of the Central Bank and
shall be used exclusively to redeem those debt securities.
(3) Any Cost to the Government resulting from the
issuance of such debt securities shall be fully reimbursed bythe Central Bank.
(4) These issuances shall not be subject to any borrowing
limits and their outstanding values shall be recorded inthe debt stock and reported in the annual report as a separateitem under section 25.
(5) The responsibilities and procedure relating to the
issuance of debt securities under this section shall bestipulated under a memorandum of understanding betweenthe Minister on behalf of the Government and the CentralBank and comply with the provisions of the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023.
15. (1) The Office shall prepare a borrowing plan for each
financial year (in this Act referred to as the “borrowing plan”)to meet the aggregate borrowing requirement in accordance
with the Appropriation Act for any given year. Such
borrowing plan shall be reviewed at least half yearly.
(2) The borrowing plan shall take account of the
determined strategy, annual gross borrowing ceiling and
the cash flow forecast for the Government and include –
(a) planned borrowings and other debt management
operations over the year;
(b) tentative instruments to be used and sources of
borrowing; and
(c) indicative timing of these operations.Annual
borrowing plan
10 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(3) The borrowing plan and its updates shall be prepared
in consultation with the relevant Departments of the Treasury
and the relevant Government agencies as decided by the
Secretary to the Treasury and shall be submitted for theapproval of the Cabinet of Ministers.
(4) The Minister shall table the borrowing plan in
Parliament not  later than the second reading of the
Appropriation Bill, as an accompanying document of theAnnual Budget Document, and shall arrange for the separate
publication of the borrowing plan document by the end of
the financial year preceding the year for which the borrowingplan is prepared. The updated borrowing plan if any, shall
be s
ubmitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval and
published in the official websites of the Ministry of Financeand of the Office.
16. (1) Issuance of Government debt securities in the
domestic market by the Office shall either be by way of
auction in accordance with the auction calendar or any othermarket based mechanism .
(2) The auction calendar shall be published in the websites
of the Ministry of Finance and of the Office at least two
weeks prior to the first issuance date planned under theauction calendar and shall cover a minimum of three calendar
months on rolling basis from the date of its publication.
(3) On the recommendation of the Minister and with the
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers, Government debtsecurities may be issued in the domestic market by way of
non-market based mechanisms.
17. The Minister on the recommendation of the Office
and on such terms and conditions approved by the Cabinet
of Ministers may borrow from banks, other financial
institutions, sovereign lenders or any other person or
institution through loan agreements or obtaining advancesby overdraft.Issuance of
Governmentdebt securities inthe domesticmarket
Borrowing
directly by theGovernment
11 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
18. (1) The Minister or any other person specially
authorised in writing by the Minister on behalf of the
Government may, in accordance with the provisions of
section 3 and the strategy, undertake liability managementoperations including –
(a) interest rate and currency swaps and other
derivatives used as hedges against the financial
risks embedded in the Government’s debt portfolio,having considered it prudent to do so for the purpose
of effective public debt management;
(b) buybacks and exchanges of Government debt
securities; and
(c) offering of early repayment of a loan prior to its
date of maturity.
(2) Transactions related to liability management
operations shall not be subject to any gross or net issuance
limit stipulated in the annual budget and shall comply withthe debt reduction objective pursuant to relevant legislation
on fiscal responsibility and public financial management.
PART IV
GOVERNMENT  LOAN GUARANTEES , GOVERNMENT  ON-LENDING ,
SUPPLIERS ’ CREDIT  AGREEMENTS  AND FINANCE  LEASE AGREEMENTS
 19. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
shall have the sole authority for the issuance and managementof loan guarantees including the collection of loan guaranteefees on behalf of the Government in respect of obligationsof a Provincial Council, local authority, State ownedenterprise or any other entity:Liabilitymanagementoperations
Government
loan guarantees
12 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
Provided that, the Minister shall take into consideration
the following when issuing such loan guarantees: -
(a) the borrower is not in any financial difficulty based
on a credit risk assessment;
(b) the loan guarantee is deemed to promote economic
development of Sri Lanka; and
(c) the loan guarantee shall be subject to the debt
reduction objective in relation to the relevantwritten law on fiscal responsibility and publicfinancial management.
(2) The issuance of loan guarantees in respect of
obligations of any other entity other than ProvincialCouncils, local authorities or State owned enterprises shall
be further subject to the approval of Parliament.
(3) Where the borrower is deemed to be in financial
difficulty based on the credit risk assessment, the guaranteeshall not be issued.
(4) Prior to submitting the issuance of a loan guarantee to
the Cabinet of Ministers for approval, the Office shall assessand price the credit risk to the Government from suchguarantee and recommend the risk mitigation mechanismincluding guarantee fees.
(5) The result of the risk assessment, the method used in
the assessment and the proposed risk mitigation mechanism
shall be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its
approval.
(6) Each loan guarantee shall be supported by relevant
legal documentation executed by the borrower whichincludes provisions that agree to among others to repay anyamount paid under the guarantee if called with interest asmay be prescribed and to fully disclose any information
requested by the Office.
13 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(7) In the event that the borrower neglects or fails to make
good on its obligations under the loan guarantee agreement,the Minister shall have the right to pursue any actionnecessary to recover from the borrower any money owed tothe Government under such loan guarantee agreement.
20. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
shall have the sole authority to on-lend Government fundsto a Provincial Council, local authority, State ownedenterprise or any other entity:
Provided that, the Minister shall take into consideration
the following when on-lending such Government funds: -
(a) the borrower is not in any financial difficulty based
on a credit risk assessment; and
(b) the on-lending is deemed to promote economic
development of Sri Lanka.
(2) The on-lending funds in respect of obligations of any
other entity other than Provincial Councils, local authorities
or State owned enterprises shall be further subject to the
approval of Parliament.
(3) Where the borrower is deemed to be in financial
difficulty, based on the credit risk assessment the on-lendingtransaction shall not take place.
(4) Prior to submitting the on-lending of Government
funds to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval, the Officeshall, assess and price the credit risk to the Government inproviding such loan and recommend the level of interestrate to cover the funding cost, any currency risk and the
credit risk to the Government.On-lending
14 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(5) The result of the risk assessment, the method used in
the assessment and the proposed interest rate shall besubmitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval.
(6) The borrower shall pay an interest at the rate as
approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on therecommendation of the Office that covers the funding cost,currency risk and the credit risk to the Government.
(7) Each on-lending transaction shall be supported by
relevant legal documentation executed by the borrower andshall include an agreement to service its debt obligations ondue dates and other terms and conditions including a clause
on penal interest in the event the borrower neglects or fails
to honour any payment obligations.
21. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
shall have the sole authority to enter into supplier’s creditagreements for procurement of capital goods or construction
or maintenance for public investment projects on behalf of
the Government.
(2) Supplier’s credit agreements that come under the
purview of the Office shall be as prescribed. Prior to enteringinto such agreements, the Office shall assess the cost incurredby the Government in entering into such agreements andsend the recommendation to the Minister or to the personspecially authorized by the Minister.
22. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
shall have the sole authority to enter into finance leaseagreements on behalf of the Government.Supplier’s Credit
agreementsentered into bythe Government
Finance lease
agreementsentered into bythe Government
15 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(2) Finance lease agreements that come under the purview
of the Office and the form, terms and duration of such
agreements shall be as prescribed. Prior to entering into such
agreements, the Office shall assess their cost to the
Government and send the recommendation to the Minister
or to the person specially authorised by the Minister.
PART V
RECORDS  AND PUBLICATION  OF PUBLIC  DEBT AND FINANCE
ARRANGEMENTS
23. (1) The Office shall maintain records of timely,
comprehensive and accurate data and information of –
(a) outstanding public debt;
(b) supplier’s credit agreements;
(c) finance lease agreements;
(d) derivative transactions;
(e) loan guarantees; and
(f) on-lending operations,
in an appropriate database.
(2) In carrying out the functions under this section, the
Office shall have the power to request from entities underRecords of
Public debt andfinancearrangements
16 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
section 2, data and information concerning outstanding loan
guarantees and on-lending, credit institutions coming under
on-lending and non guaranteed debt and such other
information as may be required under this Act.
24. The Office shall no later than sixty days from the end
of each quarter, prepare and publish a quarterly statistical
debt bulletin on public debt that provides accurate and
timely information on, among others -
(a) aggregate debt stock, debt flows, debt service cost,
and redemption profile and risk measures of the
debt portfolio and any new borrowing of the
Government;
(b) details of derivatives;
(c) details of loan guarantees;
(d) aggregate of non-guaranteed debt stock of State
owned enterprises, Provincial Councils and local
authorities;
(e) details of on-lending facilities provided by the
Government under section 20;
(f) details of supplier’s credit agreements entered into
by the Government under subsection (2) of
section 21;
(g) details of finance lease agreements entered into by
the Government under subsection (2) of section 22;
and
(h) the outstanding values of issuances of debt
securities for the purpose of supporting the
implementation of monetary policy objectivesunder section 14.Publication of
Public debt andfinancearrangements
17 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
PART VI
ANNUAL  REPORTING  TO PARLIAMENT
25. (1) The Office shall for each year prepare an annual
report on Government borrowings and other debtmanagement operations, outstanding public debt, guaranteesand on-lending activities and other finance arrangementsentered into over the previous financial year.
(2) The annual report shall include –
(a)  information on the strategy referred to in section
11 and its rationale;
(b) information on the contribution of the strategy
and the borrowing plan, their execution inachieving the debt management objectives asstated in section 3 and the rationale for anydeviations;
(c) debt disbursements and related debt services of
the Government presented including by type ofcreditor and instrument;
(d) a list of the outstanding loan guarantees of the
Government, issued to Provincial Councils, localauthorities, State owned enterprises and any otherentity including the amount;
(e) a list of loans on-lent including outstanding
amounts;
(f)  outstanding supplier’s credit agreements and
finance lease agreements which comes under thepurview of the Office including the financial termsof those contracts;Annual report of
the Office toParliament
18 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(g) information on any debt service arrears of the
Government; and
(h) any other information related to public debt
management.
(3) The Minister shall review the draft annual report and
submit it to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval andtable the approved annual report before Parliament not laterthan hundred and eighty days following the end of thepreceding financial year and publish such approved annualreport in the official websites of the Ministry of Finance andthe Office.
PART VII
BORROWING  AND ISSUANCE  OF GUARANTEES  BY  STATE OWNED
ENTERPRISES  AND REPORTING  BY PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS , LOCAL
AUTHORITIES  AND STATE  OWNED  ENTERPRISES
26. (1) Any public issue of debt securities and any raising
of funds denominated in foreign currency by a State ownedenterprise shall comply with the debt reduction objectivepursuant to any law for the time being in force relating tofiscal responsibility and public financial management andshall require prior written approval of the Minister.
(2) The approval of the Minister under subsection (1)
shall be accompanied by an assessment of the proposed debtbased on the debt reduction objective, the current andprojected fiscal, financial and debt environment. The criteriafor assessment, the procedure and such other matterspertinent to the assessment may be as prescribed.
(3) For the purpose of obtaining approval for the public
issue of debt securities and raising of funds under subsection(1), State owned enterprises shall submit to the Office allterms and conditions for each of these planned borrowingsand a copy of the debt contract after the borrowing has takenplace.Borrowing andissuance ofguarantees toand by Stateownedenterprises
19 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(4) Any issuance of guarantees to and by a State owned
enterprise shall require the prior written approval of the
Minister.
 27. A State owned enterprise shall submit to the Office a
record of its outstanding debt not later than forty five days
after the end of each quarter and shall upon a request made
under section 23, submit to the Office such information and
data on its total outstanding debt including the non
guaranteed debt as it may specify.
28. Each Provincial Council and local authority shall
submit to the Office a record of its outstanding debt,
including the outstanding non guaranteed debt, not later
than forty five days after the end of each quarter.
PART VIII
OFFENCES  AND PENALTIES
29. (1) Every entity referred to in section 2 shall furnish
information required by this Act to the Office within the
period and in the form specified by the Office.
(2) Any public officer or a governing body of an entity
referred to in section 2, to whom the exercise of the powers,
discharge of the duties and the performance of the functions
of the entity are assigned is required to furnish information
under subsection (1) -
(a) makes any false or misleading statement or
declaration or gives any misleading information
for any statement, declaration or information
required to be made or given under this Act or
regulation made thereunder;
(b) resists or obstructs the duties and functions of the
Office; orReporting
requirements ofState ownedenterprises
Reporting
requirements ofProvincialCouncils andlocal authorities
Obligation to
provideinformation
20 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(c) fails or refuses to furnish any information,
document, report or material within the specified
period unless prohibited by any other law for the
time being in force,
commits an offence and upon conviction by a competent
court be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand
rupees or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding three
months.
30. (1) When the disclosure of information contained in
administrative acts, contracts, agreements or documentation
related to the issuance, placement or repurchase of
Government debt securities, could generate losses or
conditions unfavourable to the interests of the Government,
the respective administrative acts, contracts, agreements or
documentation may be declared secret and reserved by the
Office, until the information prior to the auction or respective
transaction is provided in the market in the case of placement
and repurchase. Immediately thereafter, all information shall
be published.
(2) Any person who is involved in the implementation of
the provisions of this Act and thereby becomes aware of, or
has access to, information about intended activities or public
debt operations, of which information the person knows are
of confidential nature or should reasonably suspect, is
obliged to maintain the confidentiality of such information,
except to the extent that a legal obligation shall require the
communication of such information prior to the intended
activities or public debt operations.
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) or subsection (2) commits an offence and
shall on conviction by a competent court, be liable to a fine
not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding three months or to both such
fine and imprisonment.Protection of
market-sensitiveinformation
21 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
PART IX
GENERAL
31. (1) The Minister  may, where he considers it expedient
to do so, appoint issuing agents, process agents, and other
agents and the office shall have the authority to regulate,
supervise and monitor such agents as may be prescribed.
  For the avoidance of doubt, the power specified in this
subsection includes the appointment of process agents, in
the event where any legal disputes may be tried and settled
in any other country.
(2) The Minister shall appoint primary dealers with the
recommendation of the Central Bank to facilitate primary
and secondary market transactions in Government debt
securities.
(3) The appointment of primary dealers shall be subject
to such terms and conditions as the Office may deem
appropriate, and shall include the following:-
(a) the financial standing of the entity;
(b) the entity’s experiences and the ability to perform
the duties that will be imposed on it by or under
this Act;
(c) the entity’s compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements; and
(d) public interest.
(4) The primary dealers appointed under the Local
Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) and Registered Stock
and Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420) shall continue to be
primary dealers under this Act and be subject to the
Regulations made by the Minister under this Act.Power to
appoint agentsand hire experts
22 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(5) ( a) The power to regulate, supervise and monitor the
primary dealers appointed under subsection (2),  and under
the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) and the
Registered Stock and Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420)
shall be vested with the Central Bank;
(b) The offences committed or that may be committed
by a primary dealer under the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance
(Chapter 417) and the Registered Stock and Securities
Ordinance (Chapter 420) shall be tried and proceeded with
and be subject to the same punishment specified under the
respective Ordinances and any investigation, examination
that is or will be carried out or any suit, action or litigation
instituted or to be instituted for such offences shall be carried
out, heard or concluded as the case may be, under the
provisons of the respective Ordinances.
(6) The Central Bank shall inform the Minister on non-
compliance of the primary dealers with legal and regulatory
requirements, which may constitute a ground for cancelation
or suspention of its appointment as a primary dealer
irrespective of it’s performance of duties as a primary dealer.
(7) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose
of appointment of primary dealers and the conditions to be
observed by, the privileges of and the duties to be performed
by the primary dealers appointed under this Act.
(8) All rules, regulations, directions, determinations,
Orders, approvals or refusals, notices, circulars, operating
instructions, code of conduct or any other written
communication made or issued by the Minister or the Central
Bank or any officer of the Central Bank in respect of the
23 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
Primary dealers appointed under the Local Treasury Bills
Ordinance (Chapter 417) and the Registered Stock andSecurities Ordinance (Chapter 420) and subsisting or having
effect on the day immediately preceding the appointed day
shall continue to be in operation and be applicable to primarydealers appointed under this Act.
(9) The Minister may hire or retain the services of such
professionals, consultants and experts, as may be necessary
on such terms and conditions to be agreed upon, for the
proper and effective performance of his functions under thisAct:
Provided that, the cost of those appointments, if any,
and the cost to hire professionals’ consultants and experts
shall be within the provisions of the  relevant Appropriation
Act.
(10) The Minister shall by Order published in the Gazette
designate a securities depository system to electronicallyissue scripless securities, store holdings of and to record
ownership and interests in such securities and to settle
transactions in such securities in accordance with the relevantwritten law:
Provided that, until such designation is made, the Registry
that is established and maintained by the Central Bank under
the relevant laws for the securities issued by the Government
shall continue to be in operation.
32. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette
delegate to the Secretary to the Treasury, Deputy Secretary
Power to
delegate
24 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
to the Treasury, or the Director-General of the Office as the
case may be, any power conferred on the Minister by thisAct subject to such conditions, reservations and restrictionsas may be specified in such Order other than his power tomake regulations in accordance with the provisions ofsection 35.
33. The Government shall not be bound by the terms of
any loan agreement, finance lease agreement, supplier’scredit agreement, derivative or any guarantee issued, orpurported to be contracted or issued for or on its behalf byany other, other than the Minister or public officer authorisedin writing in that behalf by the Minister.
34. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be instituted
against the Secretary to the Treasury, Deputy Secretary tothe Treasury, Director-General or any employee of the Officeor any member of the Committee as the case may be, for anyact which in good faith is done or purported to be done oromitted to be done by him under this Act pursuant to and inthe course of the exercise, performance and discharge of thepowers, duties and functions on behalf of the Office, if heproves that he acted in good faith and exercised all duediligence, reasonable care and skill.
35. (1) The Minister may on the recommendation of the
Committee make regulations in respect of matters requiredby this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare necessary to be made in order to give effect to theobjectives and the provisions of this Act.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette  and shall be brought before
Parliament for its approval within three months of its
publication in the Gazette . Such regulations shall come into
force upon its approval by Parliament or any subsequentdate as may be specified by Parliament. Any regulation whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from thedate of such disapproval.Consequences of
unauthorisedtransactions andhow to excludethem
Protection from
action
Regulations
25 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(3) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so
disapproved shall be published in the Gazette .
36.(1) The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other writtenlaw and accordingly, in the event of any inconsistency orconflict between the provisions of this Act and such otherwritten law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
(2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), the
provisions of this Act shall prevail in relation to the authorityof the Minister to borrow, issue Government debt securities,loan guarantees, supplier’s credit agreements and financelease agreements and the appointment of primary dealers tofacilitate primary and secondary market transactions inGovernment debt securities.
37. The applicability of section 132 of the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023, shall come into operationon such date as the Minister may by Order published in theGazette appoint within a period of eighteen months from
the appointed date:
Provided that, notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, the Office may perform its powers and functionsunder this Act.
38.  Government debt Securities, loan agreements, finance
lease agreements, supplier’s credit agreements, derivativesor any guarantees issued or entered into, before the appointeddate shall be deemed with effect from the appointed date tobe entered into under this Act.
 39.  In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Annual Budget Document” means the document
prepared pursuant to relevant legislations forpublic financial management which consistsof –Provisions of
this Act toprevail overother written law
Interim
arrangement tooperationlise theOffice
Arrangements
for theapplicability ofexistingborrowinginstruments
Interpretation
26 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(a) the estimates of revenue and
expenditure in the forms as may beprescribed; and
(b) the Appropriation Bill that includes,
inter alia  estimates of expenditure and
borrowing ceilings;
“any other entity” means any entity established under
the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 or any otherwritten law and which is approved by Parliament
to receive Government loan guarantees or
on-lending funds;
“borrowing” means the procedures for raising funds by
concluding loan agreements, obtainingadvances from commercial banks and by issuing
debt securities and “borrow” shall be construed
accordingly;
“Central Bank” means Central Bank of Sri Lanka
established by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 16 of 2023;
“debt” includes all financial liabilities created by –
(i)  borrowing;
 (ii) entering into supplier’s credit agreements
and financial lease agreements;
(iii) issuances of debt securities for any other
purpose than borrowing; and
(iv) assumptions of payment obligations under
guaranteed loans that have been called;
27 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
“debt of the Government” means liabilities created by
debt and debt raised by the entities specifiedunder paragraphs ( a) and ( b) of section 2;
“debt securities” means securities issued in electronic
(dematerialized) form or in paper form, to named
persons or as bearer instruments and may be
negotiable or non-negotiable which includes
Treasury bills and bonds, promissory notes,
certificates, notes, commercial papers or any
other similar instruments by which money is
raised from the public;
“derivatives” means instruments used for hedge against
the financial risk embedded in the Government
debt portfolio and may include interest and
currency swaps or such similar instruments;
“finance lease agreements” means a long-term financial
arrangement, whereby the user of the asset (the
lessee) pays a series of rentals or instalments to
the purchaser or the owner of that asset (the
lessor) covering the full cost (including the
financing costs and a profit margin of the lessor)
of the leased asset and at the end of the lease has
the option to acquire the asset at a fixed price;
“financial year” means the calendar year;“Government” means the Government of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;
“guarantee” means an explicit undertaking by the
Government as the guarantor to guarantee the
fulfillment of contracted obligations of another
legal person or entity under certain specified
conditions;
28 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
“loan guarantee” means a guarantee where the
Government as the guarantor undertakes to
honour the payment obligations of the borrower
under the terms of a specific loan;
“local authorities” means all municipal councils, urban
councils and pradeshiya sabhas;
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject of
Finance under Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution;
“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations;“public debt” means liabilities created by debt and debt
of entities referred to in paragraphs ( a), (b), (c)
and ( d) of section 2;
“Sovereign lenders” means Governments of foreign
countries with whom Sri Lanka has diplomaticand trade relations or bilateral agreements andwhich are members of the United NationsOrganization;
“special spending unit” means an entity, other than a
Ministry, Department, District Secretariat or aProvincial Council that has been given anExpenditure Head in the relevant AppropriationAct;
“State owned enterprises” means with the exception of
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and financialinstitutions including insurance and leasingcompanies which part or all of whose business isto lend or borrow, an entity that is –
(i)  a Public Corporation within the meaning
of the Constitution;
29 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
(ii) entities established and operated under the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 in whichthe State has direct controlling interest byvirtue of its shareholding; or
(iii) State-owned corporations, converted in
terms of the Conversion of PublicCorporations or Government OwnedBusiness Undertakings into PublicCompanies under the Conversion ofPublic Corporations or GovernmentOwned Business undertakings into PublicCompanies Act, No. 23 of 1987 or suchother Acts in terms of which any businessentity has been vested with theGovernment.
“statutory funds” means any fund, other than the
Consolidated Fund, created or established by orunder any written law for a specific purpose towhich public finances are allocated excludingapproved termination funds which includes thrift,savings or building society or welfare fund towhich contributions are made by employees or,any gratuity fund maintained for the purpose ofpayment of gratuities to employees on thetermination of their services under the relevantwritten law.
40. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency
30 Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA  PIYASA ”, D EPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , NO. 118, D R. DANISTER  DE SILVA MAWATHA , COLOMBO  8.
